Let's start to get a little bit more
precise in what we're generating.
So, I mentioned that I think of
a rapid application development
approach very much like
a spreadsheet is that you have
a cell which is where a feature and
a layer converge.
And there's nothing wrong with
generating a single cell,
like I need to update this one thing.
No problem, you can generate
that one thing and that is fine.
So, a cell is nothing
more than a template.
And so, a template is a very
context specific thing that you're
taking the data,
you're hydrating it and there you go.
So let's step into stackblitz and
let's look at how to generate a template.
So in the starter we have a couple things.
We have our templates here and
in one of our templates,
and so let me open this in a new window so
we can see this a little better.
You notice here,
we have our model name variations and
we have an HttpClient templates.
So this is angular and
you'll notice that we have albums,
and here this is inappropriate template.
Now, when we get down to our axios
template, so if I was doing this in react,
this is what this particular
service would look like.
The problem is,
what do you notice about this?
This is, Oriented
towards a course,
which is not what we're using.
And so the challenge here
is that we want to go and
take this axios template and update it so
that it is appropriate for
us to hydrate with a domain model.
And, so what you'll notice
here is we have our config,
we have our schema,
we have our build name variations and so
we've seen this just generating
the name variations,
and then we have this generator.
We have a few generators and so
if you look into the file system here,
I'll pull up service generator first.
That at the core of this,
we have an object
that adheres to a generator interface and
this has a single generate function.
And so you'll see here interface
generator and it has a single function,
but what this allows us to do
is anything that implements
this interface we know that
it has a generate method.
Very, very important, because now
we can program to the interface,
and not the concrete instance.
So any design pattern book talks
about why this is important,
is that we can swap out any generator, and
we just know that if I call generate,
something's going to happen.
And what this returns,
and so we'll come up here,
this generates method takes a schema
object and a config object,
and all we care about on
the config object is scope.
And so using npm scoping you
have something like at scope,
your API interfaces, so whatever that is.
And at the bottom,
we are returning an object that has
the generated template, it has a title,
and it has a file name.
And so this is interesting and
I'm not gonna get to it today.
But using a library like JS zip,
that when you zip up a number
of files that if you
have a constructed or
a calculated file name,
that will actually preserve that
structure inside of the zip.
And so you can actually take a folder and
within the folder when you unzip it it'll
be libs core data source lib services and
so will actually respect
that file structure and so
you can just pick it up and drop it on
your generator project, so pro tip.
And inside of the template we are pulling
off the properties that we need
off of the name variations, so
ref refs, model models, single params.
And then we're just jumping in and
we're filling them out.
Pretty simple, right?
So if we go into our axios generator,
you can see here that I
have the basic shape here,
axios generator, generate, template,
title, file name, and
the problem is I have
a template that has not been
turned into a proper mold.
So, what I'll do here is
I'm going to go course and
we'll just replace this with.
Refs.
And I think that is actually incorrect.
This would actually be model.
This would be refs.
And we'll just kind of
click through here and so
this is again you're just
kind of going through and
looking for this, so
this I can go here, this is singleParam
And so this is where it's a little
frustrating in stackblitz.
Wanna go ref and
then because this is plural,
I'm going to capture this.
And I guess if I would have started the
plurals first, this would have been fine.
So let me just go top to bottom one more
time and make sure that I have this.
So environment model.
Good, good, good, good, good.
One thing that you will see here
is that when you have string
literals in a template that is a string
literal, you have to escape some things.
So if you're using backticks
in a template as I am,
you need to escape the backtick and
you need to escape the dollar sign or
the string literal inside of the string
literal will literally mess things up.
So hopefully I'm good here just looking,
looking, looking and
so let's save this and
let's go back into our example here, and
see if I blew up everything.
So our HttpClient is working
still as advertised.
But then now within our axios
template we have album.
Albums And
This might be a little broken,
but I'm not gonna get too hung up on this.
The main thing is that we have effectively
replaced the pieces that we need.
So now, service generator generate,
axios generator generate and
let's do another schema just for fun
Let's go with, I don't know.
Let's say you're in a band and Or
you run a guitar shop and so
you have a guitar schema.
I don't know why you would do this,
but why not?
So model plural.
Here and now let's take and
we'll just copy this instead of
album schema, guitar schema.
We'll flip back over.
And lo and behold, now, I have a working,
for the most part guitar service.
And I think somewhere around here,
I even have a reducer.
So why not?
Let's just throw that in here.
We'll go like this reducer template and
reducer generator.
We'll save this.
And now we have a reducer.
But I need one for the guitar.
Okay, well if you insist stakeholders
can be so rude sometimes.
And here we go.
So, once this is set up adding
another reducer or another service,
it's really not that, I mean,
it becomes negligible.
So if you remember that graph that it
gets to the place where it's like,
you need one of those, no problem,
you define the object and
you have now generated it and
you're ready to go.
So, in a lot of cases,
you absolutely can become
10 times faster or
program 10 times faster or
rather achieve outcomes 10
times faster by delegating and
automating the pieces
that are conventional.
So just kind of hammering on
this point reinforcing it is
that we saw how what an incredible
short amount of time it
took me to generate some reducers,
some additional templates.
And at least in this example,
I didn't have an axios template,
I just had a an axios file that was
specific to a specific domain model and,
we went through,
chopped it out and, that was that.